Fall25 task force - JWT Bearer Flow - TEF DRAFT proposal (#294)
camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement: documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md

    - Device connected to WiFi
    - Device without UI (IoT)

##### CIBA flow with Operator Token

> This section provides an example of the CIBA flow with Operator Token, which is a specific case of the CIBA flow where the User Identifier is an temporary token (TS.43 token). In this case, the API Consumer sends the temporary token to their backend which sends a CIBA Authentication Request with a parameter "login_hint=operatortoken:<temporaryToken>". How the API Consumers get a TS.43 token from the Entitlement Server using EAP-AKA SIM-based authentication, how this token is sent to their backend or how the API Provider then validates the temporary token with the Entitlement Server is out of scope of this document. The API Consumer must follow the TS.43 definitions to obtain the temporary token.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/294/commits/b226b34465112a1995ec7be502306a06879943b6

  alt TS.43
    Note over ExpO,ES: Get Entitlement Server<br> access_token
    ExpO->>ES: AcquireOperatorToken(ap2015,temporary_token=temporaryToken,<br>operation_targets=GetSubscriberDeviceInfo,[client_id, access_token]) 
    ES->>ES: Validate temporary token
    ES->>ExpO: HTTP 200 OK <br>{operator_token}
    ExpO->>ES: GetSubscriberDeviceInfo (ap2015, operator_token) 
    ES->>ExpO: SubscriberDeviceInfo (MSISDN[,IMSI])
  end
  ExpO->>ExpO: Check legal basis of the purpose<br> e.g.: contract, legitimate_interest, consent, etc
  opt If User Consent is required for the legal basis of the purpose  
    ExpO->>Consent: Check if Consent is granted
  end
  ExpO->>BE: HTTP 200 OK {"auth_req_id": "{OperatorAuthReqId}"}
  BE->>+ExpO: POST /token <br>Credentials}<br>auth_req_id={OperatorAuthReqId}    
  ExpO->>-BE: HTTP 200 OK <br>{"access_token": "{OperatorAccessToken}"} 
end
BE->>ExpO: Access Operator CAMARA API<br>Authorization: Bearer {OperatorAccessToken}    
ExpO->>ExpO: Decrypt OperatorAccessToken,<br>grants Access,<br>progresses request to API Backend,<br>gets API response  
ExpO->>BE: CAMARA API Response
Note over BE,FE: Response
```

> Note: The interaction between the API Exposure Platform (Authentication Server) and the Entitlement Server is just an illustrative example, not a normative one. However, the API Provider (Operator) MUST follow the TS.43 definitions to validate the temporary token and obtain the user identifier (e.g. phone number) from the Entitlement Server. 

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/294/commits/d72ca592a0d3ad9949b86c864f16f15db2daf9d6

    ExpO->>ExpO: Check legal basis of the purpose<br>e.g.: contract, legitimate_interest, consent, etc
    opt If User Consent is required for the legal basis of the purpose  
        ExpO->>Consent: Check if Consent is granted
    end
    ExpO->>ExpO: Create 3-legged access token
    ExpO->>-BE: HTTP 200 OK<br>{"access_token": "{OperatorAccessToken}"}
end
BE->>ExpO: Access Operator CAMARA API<br>Authorization: Bearer {OperatorAccessToken}    
ExpO->>ExpO: Decrypt OperatorAccessToken,<br>grants Access,<br>progresses request to API Backend,<br>gets API response  
ExpO->>BE: CAMARA API Response
Note over BE,FE: Response
```

**Flow description**:

The JWT Bearer Flow enables an API Consumer (typically the Application Backend or Aggregator) to obtain a Three-Legged Access Token from the API Provider (Operator) by presenting a signed JWT assertion on behalf of the User. The flow proceeds as follows:

**Pre-requisite:** The API Consumer must share its public key with the API Provider during onboarding, so the API Provider can verify the signature of the JWT assertion.

> The API Consumer selects the User Identifier. The User is identified by the `sub` claim in the JWT, which must be a unique identifier for the User in the Operator's system. As per the CAMARA Security and Interoperability Profile, the `sub` claim MUST be either a phone number prefixed by "tel:" or a TS.43 token prefixed by "operatortoken:".

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/294/commits/d72ca592a0d3ad9949b86c864f16f15db2daf9d6

```json
{
  "iss": "client_id",
  "sub": "operatortoken:ey...",
  "aud": "https://az.api-provider.com/token.oauth2",
  "exp": 1504807731,
  "iat": 1504804131,
  "jti": "53f42eb1-b751-44b5-bada-6990e08f35ac",
  "scope": "dpv:FraudPreventionAndDetection number-verification:device-phone-number:read"
}
```

The API Consumer sends a POST request to the API Exposure Platform's token endpoint (Step 1), using the `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer` grant type and including the signed JWT assertion. The assertion contains the required claims: `iss` (client_id), `sub` (User Identifier), `aud` (token endpoint URL), `exp`, `iat`, `jti`, and `scope` (including the declared Purpose and CAMARA scopes).

Example Token Request:

```
POST /token.oauth2 HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Agrant-type%3Ajwt-bearer
&assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjE2In0.
eyJpc3Mi[...omitted for brevity...].
J9l-ZhwP[...omitted for brevity...]
```

Then the API Exposure Platform validates the JWT assertion (Steps 2-4):
  - Verifies the signature using the API Consumer's public key.

>   - Validates the User Identifier and, if needed, maps it to the Operator's internal subscription identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Validates the API Subject and, if needed, maps it e.g. to the Operator's internal subscription identifier.
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/294/commits/d72ca592a0d3ad9949b86c864f16f15db2daf9d6

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/294/commits/d72ca592a0d3ad9949b86c864f16f15db2daf9d6
